
APL Editor Instructions

SETUP

APL code for the editor is in the file named Editor.apl
This is a DUMP file and should be converted into a regular workspace
as follows:

Place Editor.apl in your workspace directory.

From APL type:
	)LOAD Editor
	)SAVE Editor

This will create the workspace in the file named Editor.xml

Delete the file Editor.apl


LOADING

Let's say you want to edit functions in your workspace named XYZ.  To
do this you would execute the following commands:

	)LOAD XYZ
	)COPY Editor

You now have everything you need to edit any function.

UNLOADING

Eventually, you are likely to want to get rid of the editor facilities
that were copied into your workspace.  This can easily and completely
be done by executing the following:

	E∆Erase

STARTUP

Function editing is done one function at a time.  You can evoke the
editor in two ways as follows:

	E∆Edit 'MyFunc'

This allows you to edit the pre-existing APL function named MyFunc.
You can also do:

	E∆Edit ''

This allows you to create a new function.

STANDARD RESPONSES

In many places where the editor is waiting for user input, in addition
to responding with what it is querying for, you can alternatively
enter one of the following:

	end		means end the current function
	help		means display a help message
	<Enter>		Enter key without any response - means "done"

Even when you are editing a line, when the system supplied no prompt
but is is waiting for user input, you can type help to get help text.

I suggest you type help at every prompt until you feel comfortable
with the editor.

AVAILABLE COMMANDS

As in most places in the system, you only need to type in enough
letters of the command to make it unique.  Top-level commands are as
follows:

    end       =  exit
    add       =  to add; insert; or write over a line                  
    edit      =  to modify an existing line                            
    delete    =  to delete a group of lines                            
    move      =  to move lines from one place to another               
    copy      =  to copy lines from one place to another               
    find      =  to find a character string                            
    replace   =  to search and replace a character string              
    screen    =  to search and list your function a screen at a time   
    list      =  to scroll the contents of your function on your screen
    new       =  to erase the entire function                          
    save      =  save function definition                              
    original  =  revert back to original definition                    
    get       =  get a different function to edit                      



 LINE EDITING

 When you select the 'edit' option, the system asks you what line(s) you
 wish to edit.  When you select the line, the system displays the original
 line and puts the cursor on the following (blank) line in order for you
 to edit the line above it.  If you type help at that point the system
 will display a help text, but I repeat it here for your convenience.

    Enter  /  under characters you wish to delete.
    Enter  ,  under the character you wish to insert before.
    Enter text you wish to insert after the first ,
    Enter 'end' to leave without changing the line.
    Enter an empty 'Enter' to leave the edit.
    Enter a number to tab out to a column.
    Enter text not preceded by , to tab to that text.
    Enter , not followed by anything to add to the end of the line.

